# Resources

Absolutely everything in microarmy is a resource.  
The chief game resource = "people" units. (~ currency)  
Perhaps, additional fiat currencies may become available via "shadowy foreign board" story branch.

### A resource has manipulators
Things that act on instances of a specific resource type.  
__Synthesizers__, daughter resources which process ingredients and try to synthesize units of the
parent resource. Synthesizers may work at double their rate if bonus conditions are met.

    A production base has a 'small arms factory' resource
    small arms factory  synthesizes     small arms parts    from metal, alloys
                        synthesizes     small arms ammo     from explosives, small arms parts
                        synthesizes     small arms          from small arms parts

    crop                synthesizes     food                from nutrients
    
Some synthesizers are always on, others need to be turned on in order to create products.
Maintainers are always on.
    
__Maintainer__, a process that may destroy a parent resource if conditions to maintain it aren't met.

### Atomizer / Universal Constructor Technology

Atomizers can break resources down into their compound atoms with a certain yield. 
Coupled with the universal constructor technology, a player can use those atoms to build
whatever is available to be built within the current tech level. This mechanic bypasses the usual
hierarchical resource requirements that are needed for a high tech level resource if you have enough
matter lying around.

### World as a resource

Map tiles have a certain number of atoms that can be harvested. The height of the tile determines how
many atoms it can be decomposed for. For ex: tile height 14 = 14e6 atoms.

Some tiles may have pre-existing resources as generated by the world builder:

    forest:         32  x nutrients
                    6   x metal
                    18  x food
    
    base:           200 x small arm
                    450 x small arm ammo
                    100 x small arm part
                    50  x pistol infantry

    etc.
 
### Mining / Harvesting

Mining a piece of terrain will yield resources. A mining synthesizer requires only atoms to function.
Harvester / miner synthesizer does not always yield resources. If mining or harvesting fails critically, 
a qty of the hidden resource is lost / turns into rubble!

A tile will have a hidden pool of contents that need to be mined in order to discover them.


### Rubble
Rubble is a "garbage" resource that has no immediate use and fills up stores. It must be cleared eventually,
or it blocks passage of units through that tile. Can be moved (like any other resource), or thrown away: expend
energy / action points for that action.